\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}

\title{Nuclear medicine imaging of bone infections}
\author{Submitted By Eduru Tharun }
\date{11, Feb 2022}

\begin{document}

\maketitle

\section{Role of nuclear medicine}
\The role of nuclear medicine 
The diagnostic modalities available to study sternal wound infection and their 
applications are listed . The ‘gold standard’ for distinguishing superficial 
from deep infection is microbiological culture of deep sternal wound aspirate. But 
diagnosis may be difficult in the early post-operative stage due to general 
inflammatory reaction after operative trauma and extra-corporeal circulation, which 
includes fever, leukocytosis and elevated C-reactive protein. Patients with signs of 
sternal wound infection or sternal dehiscence are rapidly brought to operation, but 
those with unclear clinical presentation present a diagnostic dilemma. The first 
method of ‘imaging’ that is utilized has been plain film radiography of the thorax but 
it cannot aid diagnosis of sternal wound soft-tissue infection. Radiography 
visualizes bone disruption, focal osteopenia and periosteal reaction, usually 
associated with enlargement of retrosternal tissue. However, its value is limited in 
differentiating between post-operative complications, haemorrhage, oedema and 
mediastinitis. The X-ray is normal in the early course of infection and when 
osteomyelitis is evident the risk of mediastinitis is greatly increased. Therefore, 
in some patients the presence of fluid and gas under the wound for a few days after 
a surgical procedure could be normal . CT is able to demonstrate adjacent soft-
tissue changes and gas, which are non-specific signs of infection, and anatomical 
details such as subtle erosions, reactive periosteal new bone formation and sharply 
marginated sclerosis. However, this method is characterized by low sensitivity 
because signs of infection are clearly evident in the late stage. In addition, CT has a 
low specificity because the anterior mediastinum is generally abnormal after 
sternotomy and deeper sternal wound infections are difficult to diagnose. By 
contrast, ultrasonography is useful in detecting superficial infection, in particular the 
extent to soft tissues. Several different radiopharmaceuticals have been used to 
detect sternal wound infections However, these techniques are often not included in published diagnostic flow charts and diagnostic guidelines from clinical societies, even though their utility has been 
shown in experimental studies
