\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}

\title{Nuclear medicine imaging of bone infections}
\author{Submitted By Eduru Tharun }
\date{11, March 2022}

\begin{document}

\maketitle

\section{Clinical Indications}
 
Primary and haematogenous osteomyelitis must be studied by three-phase bone 
scintigraphy due to the high sensitivity of this method in differentiating increased 
metabolic uptake of inflamed bone from that in intact bone. Haematogenous 
osteomyelitis is typically multifocal and a whole-body study is essential. Red bone 
marrow occurs widely in the bones of all children and most adolescents and the 
accuracy of all radionuclide tracers (labelled WBCs, granulocytes, MAbs, HIG, 
microcolloids and gallium) is reduced by the physiological distribution of the tracer in 
bone marrow. In secondary bone infections, bone scintigraphy has limited 
usefulness because of its low specificity in non-consolidated fractures or in chronic 
secondary osteomyelitis, and more specific tracers such as labelled WBCs or 
monoclonal antibodies are preferred [99–101]. In patients surgically treated with 
metallic devices or with joint prostheses bone scintigraphy alone is not sufficient. 
Radiographs and bone cultures are the first approach to the diagnosis of a 
suspected infection in a painful device to assess the position and the connection 
between bone and metallic devices [95]. In the same way the usefulness of MRI and CT are questionable because of the metallic artefacts [96]. By means of colloid 
subtraction or quantitative analysis, WBC scintigraphy is the most accurate 
investigation to establish if the infection is present or if it persists or it is reduced. 
Moreover, steroids and antibiotics can reduce the uptake of leucocytes because of 
inhibition of cytokines and could lead to false negative results because of a 
reduction of cellular migration in the inflamed areas. In our experience, in chronic 
infections, and if antibiotics have been given for more than 4 weeks, treatment 
should be suspended for 2 weeks before WBC scintigraphy in order to increase the 
sensitivity of the method. In acute infections, and if antibiotics have been given for 
less than 1 week, it is not necessary to discontinue the treatment. In chronic bone 
infections the migration of granulocytes from vascular space is reduced and the 
accuracy of WBC scintigraphy is lower than in acute osteomyelitis. Gallium, 
associated with bone scintigraphy, is an excellent method for studying the 
persistence or activity of chronic infection in bone and in the diagnosis of 
osteomyelitis activity. 18F-FDG PET is a promising technique for diagnosing the 
activity of a doubtful foci of osteomyelitis but is less specific in distinguishing 
infection from inflammation: its application should be in the diagnosis of chronic 
osteomyelitis where the accuracy is higher than gallium. Moreover, this imaging 
technique is not widely available and is more expensive than all others
